[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm a psychotherapist,
and my field--
it has this background of find
out what caused your problems,
and who's to blame
and everything.
And I think we got
to the end of that.
There's all sorts
of stories or ideas
that you can have about that.
But in the end, even
if you find that stuff,
you have to figure
out how to change.
And so I've come up
with this saying,
and it's no one's to blame,
and everyone's responsible.
Everyone's accountable.
So at this moment, no
matter where you came from
or who contributed to that--
your genetics or your parents
or your childhood traumas
or whatever-- at this
moment, this is the moment--
this is the focal moment--
when you have the
possibility of shifting.
And instead of focusing
on blame at this moment,
you focus on accountability
and responsibility.
This is your moment to
take back your power.
It's not like forgiving them for
the terrible things they did,
or letting them off the hook.
It's really taking
back your power
and saying, at this
moment, I can change this.
No matter what my
background was,
no matter what my
conditioning, no matter what
my trauma, my genetics,
my culture, my old beliefs
and what got me here, this
is the moment of change.
>> I definitely spent
time looking into my past.
I done a lot of
that exploration,
a lot of that learning.
And I think, at the same time,
some of the most valuable
experiences and perspectives
that brought me out of that
were not the ones that were
punitive and blame-oriented,
but the ones that said,
look, whoever it was,
whatever the person--
whoever, whatever
their role in my life,
the recognition that they
were doing the best they could
with what they had at that time.
So it was a detaching
from the blame,
and taking ownership and
saying, OK, well, I'm here.
How can I move forward?
>> A lot of people want
to change the world.
And sometimes they want
to change the world
just because they don't
feel OK about themselves.
And they perceive the
world to be wrong,
and they perceive the
world to need fixing.
And it's really just them
saying, I feel like I'm wrong.
I feel like I need fixing.
So if you want to change the
world, the place to start
is change yourself.
And when I say
change yourself, I
don't mean make yourself better,
and strive, and be different,
and be someone that you're not
or conform to someone else's
ideal of what you should be.
I mean examine your beliefs--
beliefs about yourself, beliefs
about everything in the world,
and change those.
And then you'll
change the world--
the world that you experience.
>> What we found, often with the
things that people have grown
up with-- the rules,
the "supposed to bes"
that you have as a
child, you grew up with,
and that gives you-- it does
give you a sense of security,
because it's the sideboards
to keep you safe, in a sense.
What can happen is
when people think
about going to the next level--
we've interviewed lots
of people about this--
there's no next level.
There's nothing in their mind.
You say, so, what's your dream?
And they go-- there's
nothing there.
They haven't created
a dream, because that
goes beyond this reality
that they're living in.
And if it does, they don't know
what's there, and it's scary.
Imagine going into a dark
room with nothing in it,
and you don't know
what's out there.
And so I think when
people know what
they think the rules are and the
way things are supposed to be,
they can operate
within that structure
and have a relative amount
of success and safety.
They may never really
have the life they want.
They may never really have the
life that's possible for them.
But they may have
the kind of security
that is more immediate,
and that they
think they need based on their
limiting ideas about things.
>> When I first
moved to Australia,
after I had basically given up
everything and started living
real simply, my first knee-jerk
reaction was to try to recreate
what I understood.
So I applied to law school.
I applied to a couple of
different business jobs.
And it was amazing how
everything I applied to,
I didn't get accepted.
It was actually
hilarious, because I've
got a degree in economics from
the Wharton School of Business.
I was a chairman of
a brokerage company.
And I was applying
for jobs online,
and I wasn't getting
a single interview--
to the point where I
even applied to just work
for the RSPCA asking for
donations on the street,
just to see if somebody
would interview me.
Nobody would interview
me for a job.
It was just like the universe
was saying to me, no.
This is not the direction
that you're meant to go.
But there was this knee-jerk
reaction that I had to recreate
that in this new situation--
until I finally gave that up.
And when I gave
that up, then I went
on a totally different path.
>> It was kind of letting
go of the certainty.
That's what I had to let go of.
I had to let go of certainty
that I knew how the world was,
and that I knew what was
true, because I don't--
not on a belief level,
not on a mental level.
I don't think that truth
resides on that level.
Truth-- real truth, I
think, is beyond the mind.
And so I think I got to a place
where I realized that-- well,
these are just tools.
I can believe something in
order to achieve something.
I can have a belief that
is congruent with achieving
a goal.
And when I have
achieved that goal
and I want to go
to the next goal,
I might need a new belief in
order to get to the next stage.
They're not things
that are set in stone.
They're just things that I can
choose to take on because they
serve me at the time.
And then I can choose
to let them go in,
and choose a new belief
that will serve me
for where I want to go next.
>> I didn't have enough money
to live for the rest of my life.
I had enough money to
subsist day to day,
but I didn't know
what I was going
to do for the rest of my life.
And my wife was pregnant.
We were due to have a
child in two months.
And I asked my brother,
what should I do?
And he's a very
religious person,
and he said, pray--
pray for guidance.
Ask for guidance.
So I sat down in a room, and
I just prayed for seven hours.
I just said, please guide me.
Please guide me.
I said it over and over
again-- please guide me.
Please guide me.
And at the end of
that seven hours,
I felt like I had made
some sort of connection
with myself, with some guidance.
I didn't know what I was going
to do for the rest of my life,
but I had made a
connection inside myself
with some inner guidance.
>> I think, for a long time, I
believed that everyone else had
a formula, and for some reason
I had not been given the secret
code.
Everyone else must know, and
everyone else has a plan.
Everyone else has a map but me.
And I'm going to
ask their advice so
that they can show me the map.
>> I get kind of
preaching about it,
but I really think that people
need to live by their own
rules--
as long as you're not hurting
people, lying to people.
I was absolutely inculcated
in the rules of what
I was supposed to
do to be successful,
and I sucked at
following them properly.
>> When we talk about abundance,
I don't want to say that
I've arrived.
I'm on the journey.
I might have things to
share about my journey that
could help other people who
are also on the journey,
but I haven't arrived anywhere.
The only place I could arrive,
I suspect, is home to myself.
>> And the people who do the
best really make it up as they
go along.
They create their experience
from the inside-out.
And we call that type of
thinking "bring forthism."
And "bring forthism" is really
about how we consciously
create our experience,
because we're always
creating our life experience.
And it's about making
a conscious choice
about how you go through life,
and it's really lining up
your beliefs with your
higher self and your mission
and who you are in the
world, and really aligning
your inner thinking
with what you want.
And when you get all
those things lined up,
then literally it's like
you bring forth a whole new
reality, and you're generating
that from the inside-out,
instead of the outside-in--
which is what a
lot of people do.
>> Nothing is for everybody, but
everybody can find a path that
makes sense for them.
You don't have to
work for yourself.
It's not about
working for yourself.
It's about working in
an environment that's
meaningful and has dignity.
And you can create
that yourself,
or you might find a group of
people who are doing that.
But I think that a lot of the
negativism and the negativity
and the naysaying comes from
people who took the shot,
didn't make the shot,
and they scuttled
back to what was
comfortable, and nobody
shut up and let them be brave--
which is sad; which
is really sad.
>> The only way I know of to
stay true to the new vision is
to know who you are,
is to be authentic,
to step into your own authentic
space and live that life
authentically, because
from an authentic space,
we can't be anything but true.
If we know who we
are authentically,
if we know what our
authentic path looks like,
if we know what our values are,
if they're so important to us
that we would never
compromise those values,
then nothing outside of us is
going to take us off our path.
That's like your true
north on a compass.
That's your true north.
If I know who I am and
what's important to me
and what is important
to life, then
whatever happens outside
myself isn't going to--
no matter what
direction you turn
when you've got a
compass in your hand,
it always points true north.
>> I feel we all have a
responsibility to tune
in and dial into
our soul's calling.
And that calling has a
particular type of voice.
It's not verbal for most people.
It's a feeling of deep comfort.
I feel we have a
responsibility to align
that feeling of deep comfort
with our intellect as well.
Not to degrade our
intellect, but to unify
our soul and our
mind together, which
makes for such a
harmonious activation.
The responsibility
is simply that--
the ability to respond to that
deep comfort as a navigation
tool for do I go
down that route?
No.
I'm not comfortable at my core.
Do I go down that route?
Yes.
That feels relaxed,
wholesome, natural.
Ah, then my ability to
respond to that is my action.
Ability is action--
concerted action
in the marketplace of
life, as my mentor,
[? Stewie, ?] told me.
He says, when you're listening,
when you're tuning in,
life will slow down.
But then your ability to
listen will allow your ability
to magnify your ability
to act, so that you're not
doing extraneous or
excessive actions.
>> Sometimes it's the things
that are so easy for you,
that are your greatest assets
and gifts, that we don't see.
When I was a kid--
13, 14, 15, 16, 17--
when I got home
from school, I would
be on the telephones
for 4, 5, 6 hours a day.
And my parents would always
go, "Get off the phone!
What are you doing on
the phone for so long?
Who are you talking
to?" and they
would try to get me
to stop communicating.
But it was natural for me.
It was easy for me.
And they're like, you're
wasting your time.
You're not becoming anything.
Why are you talking
to so many people--
guys, girls?
At the time, there
were loop lines
where you could talk to a
variety of different people.
I was like, I don't know.
I just like talking to people.
And I remember them
saying, well, you'll
never amount to anything
just talking on the phone.
You need to develop
a skill somehow.
We joke today that
I get paid what
seems to be crazy
amounts of money
to speak on stage for
an hour and share things
that I've learned with
people from a skill
that my parents told
me, stop using it.
Stop growing it.
You'll never make any
money talking to people.
>> Some of us are
great with people,
and we're quite disorganized.
Some of us are really
great at the detail,
but we're actually a little bit
less extroverted when it comes
to being around other people.
Every one of us has a
different energy between us,
and when we actually
start realizing
what that natural path
is, there is no question
that there is a pathway
we can follow which
doesn't feel like hard work.
That was one of
the first lessons
that I got from
one of my mentors.
If it feels like
hard work, you're
already doing the wrong thing.
>> I think you've got
to put the effort in.
You've got to put the
effort into what you love,
and what comes naturally
and easy for you,
and get really good at what's
natural and easy for you.
And that's where the
universe opens up.
That's where you play.
>> So if you're good
at the stock market,
you invest in the stock market,
your money starts to make
money.
Or if you invest in real
estate and you're good at that,
your money starts
to make money there.
Or you figure out ways to work
that start to separate time
from money--
sources of passive income.
I write books, and
I get royalties.
I do a lot of work
at the beginning,
I don't do so much
work, and they
send me checks every
once in a while.
That's kind of cool.
So if you can figure out this
money game-- because money's
just this made-up
agreement that we have,
and how to separate
time from money,
and then you can figure out
what you're really on the planet
for.
So it's that self-care,
generosity towards yourself,
generosity towards other
people, and starting
to feel that abundance
of time and money.
>> What I started doing everyday
is deepening that connection.
So every morning, I would
meditate and ask for guidance,
and I would get guidance.
I got guidance on
how to lose weight,
and I lost all my
weight; guidance on how
to practice visualization,
how to create in the world,
how to feel supported--
just everyday, I got guidance.
And I started writing,
every day, the guidance
that I was getting.
>> So one way that you
can become more conscious
of your ongoing beliefs--
especially your limiting
beliefs-- is to journal.
One of the things I find--
I get up in the
morning, and I journal
about how I feel,
what I'm experiencing,
how I think the day's
going, how my life is.
And then I don't read
it for a few days.
I can look back and see,
a-ha, that looks like it
could be a limiting belief.
And if I ask certain questions
like, that's true because--
and answer it, or, what
does that mean exactly,
or what does that mean about me?
Then I can start finding
my own limiting beliefs.
>> One derailer is looking at
the ease with which you can
change your mind, because
changing your mind and choosing
a new path is a quick
and easy thing sometimes.
Just because we
have new awareness,
now we can step into new space.
And for many people who've
been taught that progress
has to be difficult,
progress has to be hard,
the ease is sometimes the
thing that derails us.
It's sometimes-- oh, it
can't possibly be that easy,
and it can't possibly
be that simple.
I couldn't have missed this,
and it be that easy And
so sometimes, just that message
that we are telling ourselves--
that it can't be that easy--
is the very thing
that prevents us
from stepping into
that new space.
>> I think a lot of people think
that change is really hard,
and change is something
you have to strive.
For I know I spent a lot of
years striving, striving,
striving, striving.
And all it got me
was exhaustion.
I don't think I changed.
I didn't change much at all.
I kept myself so busy so
I wouldn't have to change.
So for me, it wasn't
in the striving.
It was in the letting go.
And the letting go--
it's not that it was hard.
I just had to do it.
And it wasn't that it took time.
It was instantaneous
when it happened.
I just had to choose it.
>> Change happens fast.
People think, a lot
of times, change
is a slow, arduous,
forever process
or takes all this
cognitive energy.
But I learned early in my NLP
career, working with people,
that it can happen this fast.
>> There's a voice.
Live it.
Just step into it.
That's what I have
to say about that.
It's much simpler than what
anyone makes it out to be.